When you talk about
stress and complain about it to your colleagues
and family and friends, chances are everyone
knows what you mean. Stress researchers, however, have a specific language
and understanding of the stress that might
differ slightly from what you currently aware of
from popular media. In this lesson,
we'll breach the gap between what you intuitively
know about stress, your mind, and your body. What you think you know from general consensus and what
current research tells us. Stress is the unpleasant
negative feeling you get when, for example, you are being overwhelmed
by too much work, or when you in
conflict with others, or when you are worrying about bending deadlines for a project. As a result, you feel the tension created by the emotional
and mental strain. These negative
feelings can lead to mood swings and
concentration problems. In addition to the
negative feelings, you often notice that your body reacts to stressful situations. For example, imagine
you are about to present the findings of a
project you've been working on. So senior management, as you stand there in those
moments before you begin, you may notice that you
are sweating a great deal. You might be aware of your
heart beating faster. You may even feel
slightly nauseas. When you start talking, your voice might ramble. You might feel that you
either freeze or start to nervously shift your weight
from one leg to another. That's because stress
produces physical effects as well as subjective feelings
or psychological effects. While we share a similar
understanding of stress and have all experienced
that to some degree. Popular discussions
often confuse the source or cause of stress was
the negative outcomes. To better understand stress
and investigate its effects, stress researchers
are very careful and precise in their thinking
and descriptions. They separate stressors,
the cause of stress from the physical effects and subjective psychological
feelings of stress. While stress has been around
for all of human history, we didn't start studying
it until the 1930s. Since then, it's been studied extensively in the workplace. While there are a variety of definitions of
work-related stress, we'll use the one proposed by the World Health Organization. Work-related stress
is the response people may have
when presented with work demands and
pressures that are not matched to their
knowledge and abilities, and which challenge
their ability to cope. Stress occurs when there is an imbalance between
perceived demands placed upon a person and their abilities and
capacity to cope with them. The nature of stressors, the cause of stress, is that they put demands on you. But why should we respond with such negative feelings
and physical changes? The answer to this is buried
in our biological past. In our ancestors world, the stresses were very
different from ours. For example, they had attacking animals and hostile humans. So it was appropriate
to respond quickly with an automatic reaction to either fight or flee
from the threat. The heightened attention
to the source of the alarm was followed
by a period where the person realized
that they had escaped the threat or had dealt
with it directly. They then return to
free threat state. To help us fight or run from
threats, that is flight. We evolved automatic
physiological changes, which include increases
in heart rate, blood flow to major muscles, and increased breathing rate. In order to prepare our body for the actions of running
from fighting the fret. Attention was focused on
the threats and link to strong emotional states
such as anxiety and fear. These fight-flight reactions
will hard-wired into our brains to ensure that
our responses work quickly. You all know that the
sudden loud noise can produce an increase in
heart rate and tension. Think of how you feel sometimes
when you are watching an action movie on the
big screen at the cinema, this automatic reaction
to dramatic events is related to the quick
fight-flight response mechanism. Today, however, for most of us, the threats are no longer
attacking animals or humans. The stress you face in
workplaces today is commonly catalyzed by excessive
workloads, demanding customers, difficult co-workers, the need to give a speech to a
large number of people, or a number of other
scenarios where we feel the physical and psychological
reactions of stress. Essentially you are
preparing yourself to fight the flight
from the stress, but in reality, it's inappropriate response
in the workplace. Instead, you typically endured the complaining customer or the overwhelming work demands for the sake of continued
business and your career. The only problem is that with all the technological
advances in the last decade, workflow doesn't seem to stop. Think about servicing customers from all over the world and collaborating on
rising numbers of work projects thanks to
technology enablement, such as email or
Web conferencing. For some fortunate people, the exposure to a stressor and the stress reactions they experience only occur
from time to time. So they only feel
stressed occasionally. Once the stressful event is over, they feel better and
go about their lives. But for many others, and increasingly
that's more of us, this feeling of being
stressed is relatively continuous in our
busy working lives. More and more people
now live as if in a constant state of
activation for fight-flight. This chronic stress is
responsible for a variety of physical and mental
illnesses that are increasingly impacting
employees and managers, ranging from backache,
muscular pain, and fatigue. So anxiety and problems
with sleeping, relationship problems, depression, and
even heart disease. Stress can robust
over meaningful life. The problem of stress had
become so overwhelming by the 1990s that the United Nations called it the
20th-century disease. More recently, the World
Health Organization described it as the health
epidemic of the 21st century. The point is that stress is
common to all societies. You will experience stress at some stage in your life
and then you work. If you're fortunate, it will only be temporary and the occasional. If it becomes chronic
in your working life, you'll need strategies
to help you reduce stresses and manage
your stress reactions. In the next lesson, you'll explore what happens when demands become too great for us. When challenged
transforms into stress and you look at the
implications for performance, as well as the need
to take steps to develop your personal resilience.